Ernest Pobee - Unit 4 Homework
 
Week 4 Homework Submission File: Linux Systems Administration
Step 1: Ensure/Double Check Permissions on Sensitive Files
Permissions on /etc/shadow should allow only root read and write access.
Command to inspect permissions:
ls -l
Command to set permissions (if needed):
No command required to set permissions
 
2.  Permissions on /etc/gshadow should allow only root read and write access.
Command to inspect permissions:
ls -l gshadow
Command to set permissions (if needed):
ls -l gshadow
 
3. Permissions on /etc/group should allow root read and write access, and allow everyone else read access only.
Command to inspect permissions:
ls -l group
Command to set permissions (if needed):
No command required to set permissions
4. Permissions on /etc/passwd should allow root read and write access, and allow everyone else read access only.
Command to inspect permissions:
ls- l /etc/passwd
Command to set permissions (if needed):
No command required to set permissions
 

Step 2: Create User Accounts
Add user accounts for sam, joe, amy, sara, and admin.
Command to add each user account (include all five users):
 
sudo adduser sam
sudo adduser joe
sudo adduser amy
sudo adduser sara
sudo adduser admin
 
 2. Ensure that only the admin has general sudo access.
Command to add admin to the sudo group: 
sudo usermod -aG sudo admin

Step 3: Create User Group and Collaborative Folder
Add an engineers group to the system.
Command to add group:
sudo addgroup engineers

2. Add users sam, joe, amy, and sara to the managed group.
Command to add users to engineers group (include all four users):
sudo usermod -aG engineers sam
sudo usermod -aG engineers joe
sudo usermod -aG engineers amy
sudo usermod -aG engineers sara
 
3. Create a shared folder for this group at /home/engineers.
Command to create the shared folder:
home> ls -al engineers

  4. Change ownership on the new engineers' shared folder to the engineers group.
Command to change ownership of engineer's shared folder to engineer group:
sudo chown :engineers engineers

Or sudo chgrp -R engineers /home/engineers

Step 4: Lynis Auditing
Command to install Lynis:
sudo apt install Lynis

2. Command to see documentation and instructions:

man <command>
<command> --ls help
3. Command to run an audit:
lynis audit system


